The tension of the 230-odd strings in a grand piano exert a combined force of 20 tonnes on the cast iron frame.
Robert Schumann would often plunge his hands into the entrails of a slaughtered animal to heal his ailments.
There are two skulls in Haydn's tomb. His head was stolen by phrenologists and a replacement skull was put in his tomb. In 1954, the real skull was restored but the substitute was not removed.
Rossini wrote the aria 'Di tanti palpiti' while waiting for some risotto in a Venice restaurant.
A single violin is made from over 70 individual pieces of wood.
According to his boasts, Don Giovanni seduced 1001 Spanish, 640 Italian, 231 German, 100 French, and 91 Turkish women.
The London Symphony Orchestra was booked to travel on the Titanic's maiden voyage, but they changed boats at the last minute.
Dogfish skin was often used in the 18th century to sand violins.
Russian cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin sang a Shostakovich song, 'My Homeland Hears', over the radio on his first space mission.
During a performance of Boris Godunov at Sydney Opera House, a chicken fell off the stage and onto a cellist.
Renaissance composer Orlando de Lassus was kidnapped many times as a boy because of his beautiful singing voice.
Franz Liszt received so many requests for locks of his hair that he bought a dog and sent fur clippings instead.
'Mozartkugeln' is one of the most popular chocolate brands in Austria.
Domenico Scarlatti composed his 'cat fugue' after his cat, Pulcinella, walked across his keyboard.
The Japanese word 'karaoke' comes from a phrase meaning 'empty orchestra'.
Beethoven premiered his magnificent 9th symphony without hearing a single note.
Mozart began composing at the age of 5.
Mozart died at 35 years old, before he could finish his last work - a Mass for the dead.
Mozart composed a canon titled 'Leck mich in Arsch' which literally means "Lick me in the arse".
Arnold Schoenberg suffered from triskaidekaphobia - a fear of the number 13. He also died on Friday July 13th, 1951.
As a boy, Haydn once cut off the pigtails of a fellow choir member as a practical joke.
Schubert was given the nickname 'Little Mushroom' by his friends due to his height.
Bach and Handel were both blinded by the same ocular surgeon, John Taylor.
Tchaikovsky and Saint-Saens used to enjoy imitating ballet dancers when they were at the Moscow Conservatoire together.
Schumann ruined his own performing career by using a home-made finger-stretching device while practising piano.
Grieg kept a frog figurine in his pocket at all times, and would rub it before concerts for good luck.
Despite his huge success a composer, Glazunov lived with his mother well into his forties.
Chopin was buried with a small urn of authentic Polish soil.
Beethoven was so meticulous that he would count out 60 coffee beans each time he had a cup.
Saint Saens was a member of the astronomical society of France and had his very own personalised telescope.
Mendelssohn was an art enthusiast and would frequently paint watercolour pictures.
Richard Strauss appeared on the cover of Time magazine in 1927 and 1938.
Mozart wrote the overture to Don Giovanni on the morning of the opera's premiere while suffering from a massive hangover.
Dvorak was a keen trainspotter and visited different Prague railway stations almost every day in his later years.
Elgar wrote the main theme for his cello concerto on a napkin after waking up from dental surgery.
Vivaldi suffered from acute bronchial asthma throughout his life.
Ravel went for steak and kidney pudding and a pint of stout in Waterloo Station with Ralph Vaughan Williams in 1909.
Handel was known to order dinner for three people if he was eating out.
Brahms visited his favourite pub, the Red Hedgehog Tavern in Vienna, almost every day.
John Rutter admitted that he fancied John Tavener's girlfriend when they were at school together.
Vaughan Williams was known simply as 'The Uncle' to his family and friends.